                                                                                 Module-2(CSS and CSS 3)
                                                                             --------------------------------------------

(1) What are the benefit of using CSS?

ans: CSS handles the look and feel part of a web page. Using CSS, you can control the color of the text,

        the style of fonts, the spacing between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out, etc.

      The following are the advantages of CSS −

      CSS saves time − You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in multiple HTML pages.

      You can define a style for each HTML element and apply it to as many Web pages as you want.

      Easy maintenance − To make a global change, simply change the style, and all elements in all the web pages will be updated automatically.

    Global web standards − Now HTML attributes are being deprecated and it is being recommended to use CSS.

     So it's a good idea to start using CSS in all the HTML pages to make them compatible with future browsers.

     Platform Independence − The Script offer consistent platform independence and can support latest browsers as well.


(2) What are the disadvantage of CSS?

ans: CSS, CSS 1 up to CSS3, result in creating of confusion among  web browsers.
       With CSS, what works with one browser might not always work with another. 
        The web developers need to test for compatibility,
         running the program across multiple browsers.
       There exists a scarcity of security.
       After making the changes we need to confirm the compatibility if they appear. 
      The similar change affects on all the browsers.
      The programing language world is complicated for non-developers and beginners.
       Different levels of CSS i.e. CSS, CSS 2, CSS 3 are often quite
      confusing.
       Browser compatibility (some styles sheet are supported and some are not).
       CSS works differently on different browsers. IE and Opera supports CSS as different logic.
       There might be cross-browser issues while using CSS.
      There are multiple levels which creates confusion for non-developers and beginners.


(3) What are different between CSS and CSS3?

ans:  The main difference between CSS and CSS3 is that CSS3 has modules.CSS is the basic version, and 
it does not support responsive design. CSS3, on the other hand, is the latest version and supports responsive design.
CSS cannot be split into modules, but CSS3 can be split into modules. Being an older version of CSS is slower than CSS3.
In addition to these, CSS3 has many alignment features. CSS3 provides a box-sizing tool that allows the user to get 
the correct size of any element without making any changes in the element’s dimensions or padding. 
CSS does not have any box-sizing tool, and hence the user needs to use the standard procedures defined to align text.
The animations and 3D transformations are better in CSS3. Elements can be moved on the screen with the help of flash
 and JavaScript. Using this, the elements will also be able to change their size and color. All kinds of transitions, transformations,
 and animations can be done using CSS3. CSS does not provide 3D animation and transformations.
CSS provides basic color schema and standard colors. CSS3 supports RGBA, HSLA, HSL and gradient colours. 
It also supports rounded image corners for text boxes.
Multi-column text blocks can be defined in CSS3. CSS only supports single text blocks.


(4) Name a few  Css style component.

ans:  The components of css style are:
1)Selecter:HTML element name, id name, class name.
2)Property:It's like an attribute such as background color,font-size,position,text-align,color,border etc.
3)Values:which defines property or values allocate for properties.

(5) What do you understand by CSS opacity?

ans:  The opacity property sets the opacity level for an element.

The opacity-level describes the transparency-level, where 1 is not transparent at all, 0.5 is 50% see-through,
 and 0 is completely transparent.
When using the opacity property to add transparency to the background of an element, all of its child elements 
become transparent as well. This can make the text inside a fully transparent element hard to read.

(6) How can the background color of an element be changed?

ans: In CSS, we use the background-color property to specify the background color of an element.

The value of the background-color property can be specified in three ways:

Using RGB values e.g. rgb(250,0,0), rgb(0,250,0), etc.
Using a Hexadecimal(HEX) value e.g. #FFFFFF, #000000, etc.
Using a valid color name e.g. “white”, “red”, “black”, “blue”, etc.

(7) How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?

ans:  In this article, we will see how an image repetition of the backup is controlled in CSS. This task can be achieved by
 using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image.

The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. 
It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.

Syntax:

background-repeat: repeat|repeat-x|repeat-y|no-repeat|initial|inherit;

(8) What is the use of background -position property?

ans: The background-position CSS property sets the initial position for each background image. The position is relative to the position layer 
set by background-origin 
for example:-
background-position: top;
background-position: bottom;
background-position: left;
background-position: right;
background-position: center;

(9)  Which property controls the imge scroll in the background?

ans: The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.
It is used to control the image in the background.

A background-image that will not scroll with the page (fixed):

body {
  background-image: url("img_tree.gif");
  background-repeat: no-repeat;
  background-attachment: fixed;
}

(10) Why should background and color be used as seperate property?

ans:  There are two reasons behind this: It enhances the legibility of style sheets. The background property is a complex property in CSS, 
and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.

(11) How to center block element using CSSI?

ans:Step 1: Define the external width – We need to define the external width. Block-level elements have the default width of 100% of the webpage,
 so for centering the block element, we need space around it. So for generating the space, we are giving it a width.

Step 2: Set the left-margin and the right-margin of the element to auto – Since we produced a remaining space by providing external width so now 
we need to align that space properly that’s why we should use margin property. Margin is a property that tells how to align a remaining space. 
So for centering the element you must set left-margin to auto and right-margin to auto.

Syntax:

element {
    width:200px;
    margin: auto;
}

(12) How to maintain the CSS specification?

ans: The CSS Specifications are provided in order that each CSS Licensee, from each of the Membership Categories, has access to the appropriate information,
 both procedurally and technically, for it to implement CSS in its respective capacity in accordance with the terms of the Agreement.
n general, Licensor will follow the following time periods in requiring that changes to the CSS Specifications be implemented in affected products, 
provided that nothing in the following provisions shall be interpreted so as to alter any time limitations set forth in the CSS Procedural Specifications in effect as of the Effective 
Date of this Agreement.

(13) What are the ways to intigrated CSS as web page?

ans:  There are three ways to intigrate CSS as web page:
External CSS.
Internal CSS.
Inline CSS.
Inline - Inline is the term used when you write your CSS code within the style attribute of any HTML element.
e.g. - <p style="color:skyblue;"> Hello world!</p>

2. Internal - internal CSS is implemented within the head element of your web page.

e.g. -
<head>
<style>
p{
color:lime;
background-color:black;
}
</style>
</head>


3. External - external CSS implementation is done by creating a separate CSS file in your workspace and then linking them in every web page you create.
e.g. -
<head>
<link rel="text/css" href="your_CSS_file_location"/>
</head>


(14) What is embeded style sheets?

ans:  Embedded Stylesheet: It allows you to define styles for a particular HTML document as a whole in one place.
 This is done by embedding the <style></style> tags containing the CSS properties in the head of your document


(15) What are the external style sheet?

ans: An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage.
 Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="mystyle.css">
</head>
<body>

<h1>This is a heading</h1>
<p>This is a paragraph.</p>

</body>
</html>


(16) What are the advantage and disadvantage of external CSS style sheet?

ans:  The advantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :

With the help of External Style Sheets, the styles of numerous documents can be organized from one single file.
In External Style Sheets, Classes can be made for use on numerous HTML element types in many forms of the site.
In complex contexts, Methods like selector and grouping can be implemented to apply styles.

The disadvantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :

An extra download is essential to import style information for each file.
The execution of the file may be deferred till the external style sheet is loaded.
While implementing style sheets, we need to test Web pages with multiple browsers in order to check compatibility issues.

(17) What are the meaning of CSS selector?

ans:  A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

The element or elements targeted by a CSS selector are referred to as the “subject of the selector.” A subject can be selected based on its element type, class, ID name, given attribute, or pseudo-state.

For example, if we wanted the element with an id of "content", we would use the following CSS rule:

#content { border: 2px solid green; }

For example if we use the class selector is "paragraph", we use the following CSS rules:

.paragraph { border :2px solid red}


(18) What are the media types allowed by CSS selector?

ans:  CSS Media Types:-
       ----------------------------
CSS media types allow you to format your documents to be presented correctly on various types of media such as screen, print, an aural browser, etc.

Media Type        Decription
------------------  ------------------
all	:             Used for all media type devices.
aural:	       Used for speech and sound synthesizers.
braille:	       Used for braille tactile feedback devices.
embossed:	Used for paged braille printers.
handheld:	Used for small or handheld devices — usually small screen devices such as mobile phones or PDAs.
print	Used for printers.
projection:	Used for projected presentations, for example projectors.
screen:	       Used primarily for color computer screens.

(19)  What is the rule set?

ans:  Each (valid) declaration block is preceded by one or more comma-separated selectors, which are conditions selecting some elements of the page. A selector group and an associated declarations block, together, are called a ruleset, or often a rule.

A CSS ruleset is various affirmations to various pieces or elements of the document. The objective is to apply a bunch of properties for certain distinct qualities to a solitary, or a particular arrangement of components in the connected HTML page. 

CSS Ruleset is various affirmations to various pieces or elements of the document. The objective is to apply a bunch of properties for certain distinct qualities to a solitary, or a particular arrangement of components in the connected HTML page.

(20)  Create layout.

ans:  There is various types of css


   






 




